###install on macbook
refer to [running-docker](http://docs.docker.com/installation/mac/#running-docker)
boot2docker start/stop
docker run

### docker hellworld
1. sudo docker run ubuntu:14.04 /bin/echo 'Hello world'
    When you specify an image, Docker looks first for the image on your Docker host. If it can't find it then it downloads the image from the public image registry: Docker Hub.
2. sudo docker run -t -i ubuntu:14.04 /bin/bash
    An Interactive Container
    Here we've again specified the docker run command and launched an ubuntu:14.04 image. But we've also passed in two flags: -t and -i. The -t flag assigns a pseudo-tty or terminal inside our new container and the -i flag allows us to make an interactive connection by grabbing the standard in (STDIN) of the container.
3. sudo docker run -d ubuntu:14.04 /bin/sh -c "while true; do echo hello world; sleep 1; done"
    A Daemonized Hello world
    The -d flag tells Docker to run the container and put it in the background, to daemonize it.
    This really long string is called a container ID. It uniquely identifies a container so we can work with it.
    - docker ps
    - docker logs some-name
    - docker stop some-name
    - docker version:   go (the programming language powering Docker)
    - docker run -d -P training/webapp python app.py ( The -P flag is new and tells Docker to map any required network ports inside our container to our host. )
        In our last example the -P flag is a shortcut for -p 5000 that maps port 5000 inside the container to a high port (from the range 49000 to 49900) on the local Docker host. We can also bind Docker containers to specific ports using the -p flag, 
    - docker attach container
    - boot2docker ip
4. docker images
    - docker images
    - docker pull imagename:  If we want to pre-load an image we can download it using the docker pull command.

5.  sudo docker run -d -P training/webapp python app.py
    - sudo docker ps -l
    - docker attach
    - docker port nostalgic 5000
    - docker logs -f nostalgic
    - docker top nostalgic
    - docker inspect 703702ec74c1
    - docker inspect -f '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}'
    - docker start/stop/rm nostalgic

### 名词
1. docker hub： 数据仓库，类似maven 数据中心或github，可以创建自己的docker image，也可以从上面下载公开的image
    When you specify an image, Docker looks first for the image on your Docker host. If it can't find it then it downloads the image from the public image registry: Docker Hub.
2.


###issues
1. [sudo docker login ](http://superuser.com/questions/760909/running-docker-as-sudo)
    sudo DOCKER_HOST=$DOCKER_HOST docker run
2. docker on macbook 为什么需要用VM来运行，是怎样通过vm运行的？
3. docker 下载的东西存到哪里了？
4. docker 从哪里下载东西，容器内容如何更新？
