### misc

    tmux                            :  start new
    tmux new -s myname              :  start new with session name
    tmux attach ( a/at)             :  attach
    tmux a -t myname                :  attach to named
    tmux ls                         :  list sessions
    tmux -f file                    :  Specify an alternative configuration file
    tmux source-file your_tmux.conf :  load your own tmux file 
    tmux kill-session -t myname     :  kill session

### command line

    :                   start command line
    :source-file file   source file

### session control

    $           rename current session
    L           Switch to the last session
    s           Select a session 
    D           Choose a client to detach.
    d           Detach the current client.
    r           Force redraw of the attached client.

### window control

    c           Create a new window.
    &           Kill the current window.
    ,           Rename the current window.
    0 to 9      Select windows 0 to 9.
    .           Prompt for an index to move the current window.
    l           Move to the previously selected window.
    n           Change to the next window.
    p           Change to the previous window.

### pane control 

    x           Kill the current pane.
    !           Break the current pane out of the window.
    "           Split the current pane into two, top and bottom
    %           Split the current pane into two, left and right.
    ;           Move to the previously active pane.
    o           Select the next pane in the current window.
    {           Swap the current pane with the previous pane.
    }           Swap the current pane with the next pane.
    Up, Down
    Left, Right
                Change to the pane above, below, to the left, or to the right of the current pane.
    M-1 to M-5  Arrange panes in one of the five preset layouts: even-horizontal, even-vertical, main-horizontal, main-vertical, or tiled.

### buffers and others 

